## Features

### Current features
Generates import files for Anki index cards from fen and pgn input data.
Import files for index cards contain per line:
- front: a quest position, last move visualized
- rear: an answer position, the move visualized, a link to Lichess to analyze or play the position
Entries in import files are appended.
Several types of input data are supported:
- pure pgn data to learn an Opening repertoire
- pgn data with sequences of moves to bundle several moves to realize an idea eg. tactics
- mixed fen and pgn data to learn from Middle- and Endgame positions

Pgn data can either be given ...
- line by line, eg. please refer to PgnKata_d5-c6-dxc4.csv file in the Example directory
- by a special tree format, please refer to PgnCaro_e4-d4-e5.csv file

Tags are automatically created:
- system variant
- type Pgn, Fen
- move deepness
- origin

On the rear index card a date/timestamp is set.

For type pure pgn the following is valid:
- Pgn input data can be annotated. Per multipliers '!' or '*' multiple cards can be generated by 1 line. 
- The purpose is to generate n cards per line. For this case the answer contains 1 move.
- By the use of a sequence indicator '>' all moves till next multiplier (or file end) are taken as the answer.
- The purpose is to bundle several moves like tactics or the repositioning of a piece.
- Both multipliers '!' can be used to indicate different imprtance of data: '!' for more important data than '*'.
- The generation of cards can set the focus to important data only. The purpose is to reduce the learning material
but keep the rest of learning data for the future learning period.
- The pgn leads to a 1st position with last move visualized
- Both pgn parts lead to a 2nd position with last move visualized
- Different tags can be configured like 'Kata' and 'Caro' for a system. All input files with the same tag lead to the same import file.
- Optionally, each position is evaluated by either cloud Lichess DB or a local chess engine
- Doubled positions are skipped and counted to log how many cards have been skipped, as a sum.
- Doubled entries with different answers are indicated as a DATA problem (idea is to resolve such contradictions).
- Some errors in pgn notation are detected eg. use 'Lf4' for bishop move. A log file is written.

For type pure pgn and an Opening repertoire analysis data is written on distinct cmd line call parameter:
- for each system the Leafs created
- to detect different answers in similar positions written to an html file

for type fen the following holds true:
- fen and 1st part of pgn lead to a 1st position with last move visualized
- fen and both pgn parts lead to a 2nd position with last move visualized
- fen data is seen as important data set, so it cannot be filtered out

To clean all up eg. to do a fresh new start you have to
- delete all cards in AnkiBot locally
- synch with AnkiWeb
- delete all media files in user's home
- generate import files again including media files
- import all cards in AnkiBot locally
- synch with AnkiWeb

Notes:
- For Anki index cards referenced svg files are saved as media files under a default path in user's home

### Copyright
© Joachim Schmidt, 2023
All rights reserved.